South African National Park (SANParks) is again opening its doors for free from Monday, 16 November until Friday, 20 November 2020 as part of the 15th annual South African National Parks Week. As an added bonus parks in the Cape Region i.e. Agulhas, Bontebok, Table Mountain, Tankwa Karoo and West Coast National Park will be extending South African National Parks Week until Sunday, 22 November 2020. This campaign will allow locals with valid identity documents an opportunity to spend a day at a national park of their choice free of charge. The week-long campaign will be applicable to all the national parks managed by SANParks, with the exception of Boulders Penguin Colony and the Table Mountain Aerial Cableway in Table Mountain National Park, and Namaqua National Park. SANParks in partnership with First National Bank (FNB) and Total South Africa is proud to host the 15th South African National Parks Week which kicks off in less than two weeks. It is important for South Africans to visit and know the importance of national parks. They act as spaces to practice sustainable conservation, as spaces that preserve and celebrate our culture and heritage, and we now see national parks playing the critical role of empowering communities living adjacent to parks through job creation and we continue to explore ways of creating business opportunities particularly for small business owners. What to do in our Cape Region Parks: Agulhas National Park – Come and explore the Southern Most Tip of Africa boasting magnificent views, and take a walk along the shore to view a graveyard of shipwrecks along the Agulhas coastline. Bontebok National Park – One of the smallest parks managed by SANParks offers you sightings of a countless Bontebok roaming around, canoeing along the Breede River Dam, and endless hiking trails to explore and embrace what nature has to offer. Tankwa Karoo National Park – Experience the quietness and most scenic 4×4 routes this park has to offer. Table Mountain National Park – Enjoy a braai at one of our many braai spots such as Tokai Forest, Newlands, Silvermine and Oudekraal, and indulge in the essence of the Cape of Goodhope “Where two ocean meet” and its many activities it has to offer. West Coast National Park – Just inland from the secluded harbour of Saldana Bay, and only 2 hour’s drive from Cape Town’s City Centre, one finds the azure waters of the Langebaan Lagoon, focal point of West Coast National Park. Visit a national park this year for free during SA National Parks Week, to see what it has to offer and do your part by getting to know your national parks, celebrate your rich heritage offering and experience first-hand the iconic beauty and plethora of natural flora and fauna. NB: All South Africans who enter over the age of 18 years must produce SA ID or SA drivers licence to enter for free during South African National Parks Week.  We do accept electronic copies of ID. Due to Covid-19, all the parks will be operating under capacity constraints, and a first come – first serve basis principle will apply. 