Congratulations to the Western Cape winners of the World Travel Awards’ Africa 2020 category which were announced on 9 November 2020 and which reaffirm our status as a world-class travel destination. For the fourth consecutive year, Cape Town International Airport have been awarded the title of ‘Africa’s Leading Airport’, while the City of Cape Town were awarded the title of ‘Africa’s Leading Festival & Event Destination’ for the third consecutive year, and Table Mountain picked up the ‘Africa’s Leading Tourist Attraction’ title for the second consecutive year. Other Western Cape winners include: Considering that the c are the most prestigious, comprehensive and sought-after awards programme in the global travel and tourism industry, receiving these awards is welcome recognition of the continued excellence we offer visitors to Cape Town and the Western Cape. In addition, the tourism sector has been hard-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic this year, and so these awards are a confidence boost to the sector which has shown great resilience and adaption during this difficult time. We look forward to the announcement of the World 2020 category of the World Travel Awards’ later in the month for which a number of our attractions and experiences in the Western Cape have been shortlisted. We wish all nominees the best of luck. The upcoming summer season will be an important period for our tourism and travel sector as we seek to rebuild our economy and save jobs in the Western Cape. It has has been important to us that Cape Town and the Western Cape are front of mind for those looking to book their next holiday, and so we will continue to run our “We Are Open” campaigns to drive awareness of the best that the Western Cape has to offer, and importantly convert the interest in our world-class attractions and experiences into bookings. We will also continue to call on national government to review the restrictions on international travel and the ‘red list” which is currently preventing travellers from our key source markets from visiting the Western Cape during the critical summer season period. And finally, we will continue to work closely with businesses in the tourism and travel industry to ensure destination readiness and that the necessary safety protocols are in place so we can all stay safe and move forward.