‘Love Cape Town, ’ was made to highlight the many exciting authentic experiences and natural beauty offered by our city to entice those who are considering visiting us,’ said Alderman James Vos, the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management. ‘I am proud of the efforts that Cape Town Tourism have taken to produce such an incredible 10-minute film to showcase our fantastic city. We work hard to increase the visibility of Cape Town on a local and global stage and ensure we remain an attractive destination to all potential visitors.’ The International Tourism Film Festival Africa (ITFFA) showcases South Africa and Africa through tourism films. It exists to contribute to the development of domestic and international tourism, encourage the growth of the local film industry, and promote South Africa and Africa as tourist destinations.  ‘Film festivals play an important role in creating a link between tourists and the communities they visit, providing future tourism development opportunities within those communities. There has recently been an increase globally of travel to popular filming destinations, contributing to the growth of film tourism. ‘With South Africa becoming an increasingly popular film tourism destination, winning awards as a city will no doubt market the Mother City to tourists and attract them to our communities in future when domestic and international travel commences,’ said Alderman Vos. ‘It has become increasingly popular and effective for cities and destinations around the world to use video as a storytelling tool. To have a highly regarded festival such as ITFFA Africa give recognition to our video, is a huge honour.  And winning first prize proves Cape Town has the skills, talent and facilities to encourage international filmmakers to film commercials and films in Cape Town,’ said Enver Duminy, CEO of Cape Town Tourism. ‘Tourism is an economic lifeline for many small to medium sized businesses in Cape Town and accounts for thousands of jobs in the city. The City, in partnership with Cape Town Tourism, will continue investing in programmes and campaigns to drive demand and keep the city top of mind. ‘The recently launched “We are worth waiting for” campaign, as part of Cape Town Tourism’s recovery campaign, also encapsulates everything our beautiful, diverse and exciting City has to offer and we are working tirelessly to ensure our tourism recovery plans are aligned and Cape Town is top of mind when domestic and international travel commences,’ said Alderman