Following the easing of South Africa’s COVID-19 air travel restrictions during Level 3, SA Airlink has resumed domestic flights as of this week, 8 June 2020, which includes a limited Cape Town – Johannesburg service. The flight will be operated by a 98-seat Embraer E190 regional jet. Prior to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on air access to Cape Town, Airlink showed favourable passenger growth to the region. The airline saw a 16% increase in passenger growth in 2019, when compared to the previous year, as well as a double-digit compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12% between 2016 and 2019. “Airlink is one of our key customers and certainly one that understands service excellence. It’s great to see them back in the skies. As an airport we are ready to welcome passengers through our doors and are set to ensure a safe and seamless transition through the airport,” said Deon Cloete, General Manager of Cape Town International Airport. Offering a limited scheduled domestic air service, with flights on the Johannesburg-Cape Town and Johannesburg-Durban trunk routes, Rodger Foster – CEO and MD at SA Airlink – commented: “Airlink is pleased to be flying again and at the service of our customers. We acknowledge that the spread of the Corona-virus remains rampant and we wish to assure customers that we have carefully defined and applied our risk mitigation protocols in the interests of the safety of our customers and staff. I would like to thank our customers for choosing Airlink, I trust that our service delivery value proposition will meet and exceed your expectation – Airlink is proudly the most on time airline for 2020. We hope to be serving our other domestic destinations in the very near future.” “Cape Town Air Access welcomes Airlink’s return to the Cape Town air route network. Air access is a significant contributor to tourism globally and a key factor in re-stimulating economic development, which will be crucial for the Western Cape as it continues to recover from the effects of the pandemic. The Airlink service will provide a vital business and cargo connection between two main centres in South Africa,” added Tim Harris, CEO of Wesgro. Ticket Sales and Information Tickets are on sale at IATA-registered travel agents or online: www.flyairlink.com For more information, including the flight schedule and the Airlink’s safety protocols, visit: https://www.flyairlink.com/news 