StartupBlink is a Global Startup Ecosystem Map and Research Center which ranks the startup ecosystem of more than 1,000 cities and 100 countries. Their lastest startup report has placed Cape Town in the top 150 of 1000 cities who are succeeding in creating a favourable environment for start-ups to thrive. In the 2020 report, Cape Town, which is home to 60 percent of all South African startups, has risen to 146 in the top 150. ‘We are pleased to see Cape Town placed so highly in the global ranking. Cape Town is home to almost two-thirds of start-ups in the country and this can be attributed to the many support structures we have put in place to assist entrepreneurs. The City of Cape Town has prioritised  support for small businesses and entrepreneurs, and being ranked as number one in the country just goes to show that this hard work is paying off,’ said Executive Mayor Dan Plato. “Of course, we are facing challenging times where many entrepreneurs and start-ups have not been able to trade due to the lockdown restrictions imposed by the national government during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, I am encouraged to see many businesses adapting to these challenging times and working together to assist those in need. The City has put a number of initiatives in place to support the business sector’s recovery from the lockdown,” Added Mayor Plato. “This achievement is a direct result of the City’s dedicated efforts to attract investment, create the conditions for businesses to grow and create employment. The city boasts first-class infrastructure, sound governance and four of the top universities in Africa, providing a skilled workforce. As tech hub of the continent, Cape Town has what it takes to provide a business-friendly environment which grows the economy and creates jobs. During the lockdown the City has been able to provide support needed for businesses to weather the storm. The SMME COVID-19 Toolkit initiative targets SMMEs in Cape Town, and has provided thousands of toolkits containing the essentials to help get businesses back to work safely,” said Alderman James Vos, Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management. As part of our initiatives to support businesses during the lockdown we also moved the City’s Business Hub service online. The Business Hub was established to assist businesses and entrepreneurs, and provides key support on how to set up and improve businesses. The Business Hub now also gives access to credible information and clarity on lockdown regulations and relief packages available. “We also support SMMEs through initiatives like the Smart Procurement programme which promotes access to markets and training for SMMEs, while providing them with a platform to showcase their products and services and reach their full potential.” Please continue to wear your face mask, practice social distancing and good hygiene by washing hands regularly and not touching your face. We can limit the spread of the coronavirus if we all work together. 