The good news is that Langeberg Link MTB 3-Day stage event scheduled for 25-27 September 2020, will go ahead as planned. The Government has advised Cycling South Africa that small-batch events for up to a maximum of 300 people, including staff and personnel, may commence from 1 September 2020. After the announcement, the organisers of Langeberg Link MTB has obtained all the relevant permits and confirmed sanctioning of the event by Cycling South Africa. The farm Oudewerf, Kliphoogte, 12km outside Swellendam on the R60 towards Ashton will once again host the event. This is the perfect time to get back in shape ahead of cycling races for the rest of the season. The event is open to all mountain bike enthusiasts. Riders can choose between a long route, or a short route and the event also offers solo entries in all three days, or single days only. Trail running adventurers can take part in 6km or a 15km trail run on Sunday, 27 September. The route will follow the start of day three, with a few shortcuts, whilst still giving runners a unique experience. The Langeberg Link MTB route will take riders mostly on private farm land – thus ensuring the uniqueness of the event. The track, where normal access is limited, is purposely designed that cyclists can enjoy the overwhelming beauty of fauna and flora in the area and experience some breath-taking views of the Langeberg Mountains. Night Race: The event will start with a night race on 25 September, covering a 2.4 kilometre lap route on the farm. Riders need to complete as many laps as possible within an hour and will have to enter and exit the barn on completion of each lap. Day 2: A 61km route that includes a combination of gravel travel, jeep track and single track will be followed. Day 3: The route takes riders into the Langeberg mountain range and although only about 24km, some hills are quite challenging. Your efforts will be rewarded by the scenery. The ‘famous Hill’ will once again await riders on route. “As organizers, we are extremely thankful to the local farmers, who not only allow riders to traverse their land, but also leave no stone unturned when it comes to preparing routes, build bridges, man waterpoints and act as marshals. To ensure that this beautiful part of the land is not exploited, and to make the ride exclusive, entries are limited,” said Riana Rosseau. It should be noted that accommodation is excluded from the entry fees. Tented accommodation with adequate ablution facilities at the venue will be made available at a reasonable rate for the weekend. Enter via www.entryninja.com or contact 074 457 6777 or visit www.langeberglinkmtb.com