A number of City of Cape Town nature reserves blossom with flowers such as the Cape White Daisy, Vygies, Gazanias, Pelargoniums, Arum Lilies, Kelkiewyn, Viooltjie and Bobbejaantjie to name a few. Many areas across the city are already covered with spring flowers, but the City reserves are truly worth visiting as these conservation areas offer the perfect spots to enjoy these sights while exploring the rest of the natural beauty showcased at the reserves. The City of Cape Town manages 21 nature reserves in Cape Town – many of which are in very close proximity to urban areas. Residents are spoilt for choice with access to reserves located right on their doorstep. ‘With the recent rains Cape Town has been receiving, we can expect a show of blooms across the city this year. Our reserves are rich in vegetation and animal life and I believe many Capetonians have not yet discovered these magnificent reserves. If a road trip to view this year’s blooms are not on the cards, I encourage you to seriously consider one. The City nature reserves boast beautiful spring flowers each year and residents should not  miss out on the spectacle. ‘Some of the areas I enjoy visiting over the flower season include the Coastal Hiking Trail, which forms part of the City’s Blaauwberg Nature Reserve. This area showcases spectacular flowers each year. Many of our reserves have hiking trails which offer visitors and residents an opportunity to access certain parts of the natural environment which they may not have been exposed to before. Another favourite reserve close to home is the City’s Bracken Nature Reserve’s in Brackenfell where one is sure to come across the bright coloured blooms while taking a stroll along the reserve’s pathways,’ said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Alderman Marian Nieuwoudt. It should be noted that the best time to view flowers are in the afternoon, when the sun is out. Any time between late morning and 15:00 is advised, while the sun is still high in the sky. Visitors are also reminded to please wear a mask to cover their nose and mouth at all times, to wash their hands often with soap and water, or to use hand sanitiser, and to observe the social distancing that is required in terms of the COVID-19 health and safety protocols. For more information on the City of Cape Town Nature Reserves and all relevant contact details residents can visit https://www.capetown.gov.za/Family20and%20home/See-all-city-facilities/Our-receational-facilities/Nature%20reserves. 