Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate reports new enquiries from business people, affected by concerns about Covid-19, who want to live and work securely with their families in a well-spaced private residential estate, away from the major cities of South Africa and Europe, with good communications and travel links. The 200-hectare Benguela Cove has 124 plots, half of which are now developed as luxury waterside properties, all with fully managed security, water and other services and good wi-fi coverage. It is situated just an hour’s drive from Cape Town International Airport, close to the popular resort of Hermanus, on the Western Cape. There are plots available for development now priced from R3.2 million to R6 million, which buys a 2,000 m² site for new owners to create a home to their own design. For a limited period, the estate developers are offering three-year interest-free loans for ownership of the remaining plots. Prices for completed houses start at R17million, which buys a 747m² home in a contemporary design, with 579m² living space, which includes four en suite double bedrooms. Other features include a swimming pool, private balconies and sundecks. New owners are drawn to the estate by Benguela Cove’s beautiful location and outdoor lifestyle. It is located on the edge of a natural lagoon, with abundant wildlife and outstanding views of the lagoon and distant mountains, as well as the vineyards and olive trees of the estate’s working wine farm. Residents enjoy an annual allocation from its award-winning vintages. Protected by a sandbar separating the lagoon from the Atlantic Ocean, this is one of the only water sports developments in the Western Cape, with owners enjoying waterskiing, kitesurfing, kayaking and open water swimming. There is a private jetty and slipway, boating garages, a clubhouse and boat storage, subject to availability. The estate also features a tennis court, basketball and boules courts and an 11km walking and biking track, all for residents’ exclusive use. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za or contact Johann on 074 1947 927 or johann@remax-townandcountry.co.za