Celebrating innovation and excellence in wine tourism throughout the greatest wine regions in the world, Wesgro extends a call for applications across the province for wine producers, wine experiences and wineries to enter into the prestigious Great Wine Capitals Best Of Wine Tourism Awards 2021, free of charge. This international annual competition is designed to reward the wineries in each of the Great Wine Capitals Global Network’s member cities, for their excellence in seven different categories, including: Cape Winelands District Executive Mayor, Ald (Dr) von Schlicht commented: “The Cape Winelands District is home to a superb selection of outstanding wines that are determined by terroir, perfected by wine-making skill which is guided by passion and commitment. We specialise in some of the world’s best wines, combined with unique tourist destinations. After a three year break from the Great Wine Capitals Awards, the time has come to grant our wine industry the opportunity to proudly share our winemaking craft, culture and – experiences with our own and international citizens. The Cape Winelands District is ready and we are excited to welcome visitors into our spaces after the global lockdown due to COVID – 19; we are ready to take the tourist-experience to the next level. In the Cape Winelands we still believe, that we offer a thousand things to do …and then…some wine!” Providing a great opportunity to improve brand image in the wine and tourism sector globally, considerable media attention is given to the competition and winners. The international wine and tourism media regularly publish articles about the contest and the award-winning properties and wine tourism operators. Winners of the contest will also be included in an important annual global campaign financed by Great Wine Capitals, which includes a brochure designed and published; advertisements and advertorials booked on popular industry-related media, and social media attention about the winners activities – particularly on Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest. Alderman James Vos, Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management within the City of Cape Town, “Our city is home to award winning wines and my objective is to make sure that people locally and globally know this. The City of Cape Town Place Marketing strategy, to be rolled out together with the City’s official destination marketing organisation Cape Town Tourism, will focus more on wine tourism of Cape Town’s two iconic wine routes. Our approach will ensure we position Cape Town’s wine routes so we are top of mind for tourists, both local and international, can grow this sector and create more jobs.” “Cape Town and the Cape Winelands joined the Great Wine Capitals global network two months ago, and already we’re seeing the opportunities that come with being a part of this prestigious network. The decision to extend applications beyond Cape Town and the Winelands was taken due to the world-class wine tourism offering scattered throughout the province. We encourage wine tourism operators to apply for this incredible opportunity – now more than ever we need to remain top of mind so that visitors from across the globe can start to plan for that ‘one day’ when they will visit again,” concluded Wesgro CEO, Tim Harris. Please follow the link https://bit.ly/2Xdvx69 and complete the application form along with supporting documents. Deadline for submissions is 30 August 2020.