You’re Welcome Gifts aim is to create an unforgettable experience for customers, but even more – to leave a memorable impression with each recipient of a You’re Welcome Gift box. “Our relationship with our artisan partners is very important to us and we value the time and the effort that goes into creating their unique hand-crafted products. Our strategy is to supply the market with products which are different from the norm. We would like to direct our customers to an undervalued trading sector; therefore, we promote artisan-type products and concepts which is locally produced. You’re Welcome Gifts hand pick products and partners to ensure a high standard of quality is met. We test the items which we present to the market, and from time to time add new discoveries. We may not be food connoisseurs, but the products we have seen, smelt, heard, tasted and touched, have been magnificent. With confidence we place this merchandise into our gift boxes, knowing that the recipient will be opening something unique, something different and definitely something special. Food inspired gifts are highly popular as it is made in the heart of the home – the kitchen. Hearty meals are created in the kitchen to fuel our bodies, minds and souls and those of our friends and families. In “For the Kitchen” section, shoppers will find various gift boxes packed with surprises that originated in the kitchen. From delectable biscuits and rusks, to mouth-watering jam, relish, tapenade, pickles, pâté, and sauces. Items such as infused olive oil, balsamic dressing, salt, pepper, and spices with a twist, not to mention the beer and biscuit baking mix which can be found in our gift boxes. Don’t miss out on the sweet treats that includes chocolates, nuts, toffees, nougat, gourmet popcorn and specialized coffee and tea that is also added to our gift boxes. There are plenty of gifts to choose from to treat those you love. Why not fill up your own kitchen cupboards and spoil yourself with unique products from the Western Cape. Browse through our online store to find the perfect gift that will leave a memorable impression on everyone on your list – it may be your client, your friend or family member. Our gift boxes are perfectly packed and delivered anywhere in South Africa – waiting to be send on your behalf.” For more information visit www.yourewelcome.co.za Order Online: Kitchen Gifts, Gifts for Her, Gifts for Him, Social Vibes More articles on You’re Welcome gifts: You’re Welcome Gifts / Gift Boxes takes the gifting experience to the next level