As SA’s original artisan ‘up’-market, KAMERS/Makers showcases all things local, proudly handmade and creative. “2020 is our Year of The Maker – we’re celebrating the magical spark of creativity that drives certain people to do things differently. And in particular, how that ‘spark’ finds its physical expression through the hands of the Maker in objects that surprise, delight and enrich us.” This is the core of what has made the KAMERS/Makers shows so very popular in South Africa – bringing that spark of Maker creativity onto a stage where everyone can share, celebrate and ultimately, take home their own spark of proudly local inspiration. “Indeed many of our current Makers started their own artisan journeys as visitors to our shows… Inspired or challenged by a product they saw, they found their own spark and nurtured it to the point where they’re now successful creative entrepreneurs. So 2020, for us, is the year of MAKE… a choice, a plan, a difference. MAKE your mark, MAKE it happen, MAKE it count… but make something!” “And speaking of making a difference – our great partnership with Consol Glass continues in 2020 where we will be launching further initiatives pushing our sustainability even further. We have to date given away 75,000 Curvy glass water bottles, and filled those with almost 60,000L of BlueWater purified drinking water. This means a staggering 160,000+ plastic bottles have been saved from ending up in SA landfills.” “This year we will be launching yet more brand new artisans onto the SA stage – with dozens of inspiring new Makers at every show – ensuring that KAMERS/Makers remains… The coolest stuff you’ve never seen.” “Our 5 shows for 2020 begin, as always in the heart of Cape Town where we return to Jan Van Riebeeck High School, under the cloth of Table Mountain on uber cool Kloof Street from 26-29 March 2020.” “Then it’s on to Sandton for the first 2020 Gauteng show at St David’s Marist College Inanda – where last year we broke all records for our Jozi shows. Show dates 23-27 April.”
Each show features 100 – 200 Maker-entrepreneurs, handpicked for their unique creative flair. The shows boast a wide selection of beautiful objects, stylish fashion, decor, gifts, foodie delights, treats, drinks and so much more. “We will be back in Joburg for a Spring show in late August, following the success of our first Spring show last year… and then it’s on to beautiful Blaauwklippen in Stellenbosch end October, before we close the year, as always, in Irene, Pretoria early December.” For more information visit www.kamers.co.za