City Sightseeing South Africa, the company who operate the iconic Red Bus in Cape Town and Johannesburg, have expanded into the scenic Western Cape town of Hermanus. This seaside town has become home to City Sightseeing Hermanus, which officially opens this week and will run a fun and affordable hourly Hop-on-Hop-off service for visitors and locals alike. The 90-minute scenic tour offers passengers a unique view of this famous whale-watching destination with its pristine beaches and intriguing history. Accompanied by experienced local guide, City Sightseeing Hermanus will show you the Voëlklip, Langbaai and Grotto beaches, help you take in the sea views overlooking Walker Bay, and uncover the local history of the Old and New harbours, insight into the Zwelihle Township and the breath-taking views from the Rotary Way lookout point. The 1-day Hop-on Hop-off ticket is R150 per adult and R75 for children under 17. The 2-day option available at R220 for adults and R110 for children. Hermanus Explorer Day Trips from Cape Town City Sightseeing Cape Town now also offers a day trip to Hermanus starting with departures twice a week from Cape Town. Enjoy the picturesque trip along the world famous Clarens Drive as you pass through the seaside towns of Gordon’s Bay, Rooi Els and Betty’s Bay in a luxury air-conditioned coach. Arrive in Hermanus at 10h45, which allows around 5 hours of free time to explore this quaint seaside village and take advantage of the many excursions and adventures on offer, these include boat based Marine Eco safari trips, Kayaking in the bay, land and boat based Whale watching (during the July-November whale season) or the local Wine Hopper tour to the Hemel en Aarde wine valley. The Hermanus Explorer trip includes a ticket to the City Sightseeing Hermanus Hop on Hop off bus tour and a Wine tasting featuring a selection of regional wines from the “Hemel en Aarde” wine valley. This tasting is hosted at the “The Wine Glass” located just near the Old Harbour in Hermanus. Tour departs Hermanus at 4pm and heads through Grabouw and over the stunning Sir Lowry’s Pass back to Cape Town. Full day tour tickets are R695 for adults and R350 for children under 11. Tickets for City Sightseeing Hermanus and the Hermanus Explorer are available on www.citysightseeing.co.za or from any of the local City Sightseeing ticket offices.