The clothing and textile industry is currently experiencing an emerging global trend known as ‘fast fashion’ that favours the speed at which goods can be brought to market, which is preferred over cheap goods. This trend coupled with the rise of the ethically-minded consumer has created new opportunities in the clothing and textiles industry in South Africa. Cape Town, with its strong retailer presence, is perhaps the best placed domestic city to adapt to these trends and to lead the revival of this important industry.” “I welcomed the opportunity to attend the Fashion Graduate Recruitment Showcase (FGRS) hosted by the Cape Town Fashion Council (CTFC). The programme is designed to create a platform for young up and coming talent in the Clothing and Textile industry. “The showcase provides a platform to connect prospective employers with young fashion graduates. As part of the showcase, South Africa’s top graduates are curated by an expert industry panel, based on a set of criteria. The City supports this programme that is designed to create a platform for young up and coming talent in the industry. It has previously seen participating candidates being employed into entry-level positions,” said Alderman James Vos, Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management. The clothing and textile industry continues to be a major employer in the Cape Town economy, employing 24 330 individuals – the second largest employer within the manufacturing sector. “As a City, we are committed to supporting the Clothing and Textile Sector by providing grant funding to strategic business partners dedicated to the growth of the industry. Cape Town’s clothing and textile industry is also well served by organisations such as the Cape Clothing and Textile Cluster, Clotex, and the Cape Town Fashion Council.” The funding of these organisations goes towards programmes that cater for training, upskilling and cross-skilling, internships and placement as well as the sector promotion and development, among a host of other initiatives. “We do this because the Clothing and Fashion Design sector is a major employer and contributor to the Cape Town economy. The main aim is to eventually make Cape Town the go-to city for fashion and design on the continent and beyond because we have what it takes as a City to be the best in the world,” added Alderman Vos.