Abriella and Issataya Bredell from St Francis Bay in the Eastern Cape believe in giving back – no matter how young you are. On 20 March 2020, Issataya (11) will be joining her sister Abriella (13) to attempt to break another open water world swimming record. Abriella will swim the 11,9km route around Robben Island, while Issataya will swim the 8,5km distance from Cape Point to False Bay. Besides attempting to break another record for being the youngest to swim these particular routes and distances, these determined sisters are raising funds for the upgrade and expansion of the Emergency Centre at the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital. Their goal is to raise R122 million. “Please do not think we are doing it because we are asking for more donations. We know that this is a CRAZY time. We want everyone to be safe and calm and for things to be sorted,” says Abriella. “We are doing it to honor those who have already donated and to the promise we made to them for the donations given to The Red Cross War Memorial Hospitals ER, via The Children’s Hospital Trust,” Abriella continues. Issataya will leave at around 8am from Diaz beach at Cape Point on the Atlantic side and swim to Buffels Bay tidal pool on the False bay side in the Indian Ocean., while Abriella will leave from Blouberg via boat from the beach, swim around Robben Island and then return as soon as has completed her swim. “We have not taken the COVID – 19 lightly, we have a Doctor checking the full team in the morning and making sure everyone’s vitals, and temperatures are in order before we begin,” Abriella concludes. Backgorund: In January 2018, at the age of 11, Abriella created her own piece of history by becoming the youngest person to swim the Robben Island Channel, a gruelling 7,9km swim from the island to Blouberg beach in Cape Town in three hours and eight minutes, raising R158 000 for the Red Cross intensive care unit. “I felt good about my performance in 2018 and was lucky enough to have the support of so many people. It brought great joy in my heart that I contributed to a worthy course. What was special at the cheque handover was the cards I received from the children which I will treasure forever,” Abriella said. Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital The Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital is the only specialist hospital dedicated entirely to children in southern Africa and manages 260 000 patient visits annually. Very sick children are referred to this world-renowned tertiary institution from all over South Africa and the African continent. Since 1994, the Children’s Hospital Trust, the Fundraising Arm of the Hospital has helped raise funds for building upgrades, new equipment and skills development programmes. As the Hospital was built in 1956 the outdated facilities were in critical need of upgrading. Despite this the Hospital is world-renowned as a centre of excellence in paediatric health-care and research. 100% of donations received by the Trust go directly to the Hospital, not a single cent is spent on administration costs.