The Western Cape government, together with Wesgro, launched the “We Are Open” domestic tourism campaign to urge South Africans to take advantage and explore the beauty and diversity of the many affordable and world-class attractions that Cape Town and the Western Cape has to offer. The launch follows South African governments easing of travel restrictions and the resumption of inter-provincial travel during level 2 lockdown.   The campaign follows on the “One Day” campaign, that was launched during lockdown to support the tourism industry in the Western Cape. The “We Are Open” campaign will target travellers across the country who are looking for world-class and affordable travel options. For those living in South Africa, that day is now here, and our most beautiful regions in the Western Cape – the Cape West Coast, Cape Overberg, Cape Town, Cape Winelands, Garden Route and Klein Karoo and Cape Karoo – are open to explore, safely. Outlining the detailed campaign plan, Wesgro CEO, Tim Harris, said that, “Many people’s international holidays were cancelled due to the lockdown. But the Western Cape is full of experiences that match some of the world’s favourite destinations and we want to show people just how diverse and world-class it truly is. And so, this digital campaign will highlight the world-class locations of Cape Town and the Western Cape where you will feel like you could be anywhere in the world.” By building awareness and broad reach of the travel message and then, using a mix of social content, digital display advertising and local influencers in Kwa-Zulu Natal and Gauteng, the campaign will drive key messages to audiences across the country. Once we have developed the audience, we will then encourage them to make the decision to book through targeted and compelling holiday promotions. The campaign will also include our “Kids Stay Free” initiative to encourage families to take advantage of the offers for children to stay free at participating travel and accommodation partners across the Western Cape. Those travelling are encouraged to take a photo at their favourite local attraction, restaurant, museum or outdoor activity and post it on social media with the #WeAreOpen hashtag. For a list of curated experiences on the Discover Western Cape visit www.wesgro.co.za/travel/home