September is both Tourism Month and Heritage month in South Africa when we rejoice in and celebrate the beauty of our natural heritage. To mark the significance of tourism and heritage, CapeNature reserves will be free from 16 – 22 September 2020. There are so many reasons to be proud of our rich natural beauty. Did you know that the Western Cape Province is home to a number of World Heritage Sites, so named because they meet the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) requirements for containing fauna and flora of outstanding universal value?  Or that the Cape Floral Region (one of the six floral kingdoms in the world) has the highest concentration of plant species in the world. It contains an estimated 9 500 species, of which 70% do not grow anywhere else in the world. If you crave adventure in the outdoors, our pristine beaches, scenic forests and rolling mountains provide the perfect backdrop for hiking, cycling and swimming to get the blood pumping. What more opportune time to reconnect with our natural heritage by exploring the Western Cape and experiencing the sights and sounds of nature?  Whether you’re heading to the Garden Route, the Overberg, the Winelands , the Karoo or the West Coast, you’ll be able to visit a CapeNature reserve and experience your natural heritage. Participating Reserves: West Coast: Groot Winterhoek, Cederberg, Matjiesrivier. Rocherpan Winelands: Limietberg, Jonkershoek, Assegaaibosch, Hottentots Holland, Vrolijkheid Overberg: Kogelberg, De Mond, De Hoop, Marloth, Grootvadersbosch Garden Route: Robberg, Keurbooms River, Goukamma Klein Karoo: Swartberg (Gamkaskloof/DieHel), Gamkaberg The following terms and conditions apply to this campaign: The conservation fee will be waived for visitors to selected CapeNature reserves between 16 – 22 September 2020. No pre-bookings required. Daily reserve maximum capacity availability applies to visitor walk-ins. Free access fee will pertain to general access (conservation fee) and hiking and mountain biking. The waiver will NOT apply to the Whale Trail, partners or concessions (including canopy tours, bouldering, horse riding etc). R0 rated permits needs to be given to everyone accessing the reserve during this time, as per usual standard procedure to ensure that all access numbers and activity numbers are recorded. Access to Protected Areas during the CapeNature Access Week will be conducted during regular reserve hours and applies to entries at CapeNature reserve gates. For more information visit www.capenature.co.za