Henri’s Restaurant and Wine Bar is conveniently situated on Somerset West Main Road in a heritage building which was renovated years ago into a spacious contemporary restaurant. The owner since 2013, Pierre Vosloo welcomes first-time visitors and familiar faces from the Helderberg basin and abroad to the Restaurant and Wine Bar. “Little did we know how much we would come to rely on our community during the trying times that so many have faced.” “Over 150 days ago, we were unsure of the challenges that would lie ahead, but it soon became clear that we would have to rethink, adapt and expand our offering,” says Pierre. “Our decision making was at times governed by strict lock-down regulations but also offered opportunity. We endeavoured to deliver delicious familiar favourites and new dishes to our customers, offering our full menu for take-away, delivered by our own team, as well as ready-made individual and family meals. This included chicken pie, lasagne and cottage pie prepared in trays to pop in the oven or the freezer. We also prepared chicken curry, oxtail and lamb shanks in easy to reheat bags for convenient dinners,” Pierre continues. “During this time we established a Back-a-Buddy fundraising campaign to support our waiters and waitresses who could not qualify for other benefits and we are humbled by the generous contributions received,” Pierre added. “We also expanded our menu by becoming a supplier of BRM pork loin ribs and marinated chicken and when regulations allowed we supported local wineries by selling their wine at cellar door prices. As we are slowly moving toward a new normal we will continue with these offerings and look forward to seeing familiar and new faces in our restaurant, without whom our doors could not have remained open,” Pierre concludes. “Congratulations Henri’s Restaurant & Wine Bar on being a Travellers’ Choice Winner. Each year, we comb through reviews, ratings, and saves from Travellers everywhere, and use that info to award the very best. You’re part of an exclusive group, and we want to help you celebrate (and promote) this major accomplishment – You’re in the Top 10% of Restaurants worldwide,” – Travellers’ Choice 2020 For bookings contact 021 852 6442 and view the full menu online at www.henrisrestaurant.co.za