Valenture Institute, a global private online high school has allocated key properties stretching from Constantia to Sandton for the launch of South Africa’s first tech-enabled, boutique campuses to open their doors in January 2021.  These campuses will be offering students a learning environment of the future in location-based hubs. This extends the Valenture experience as students (and parents) will have access to vital support and services aimed at easing the educational process holistically. Valenture campuses offer: A combination of virtual learning and in-person support and experiences; An internationally-recognised curriculum; Weekly lectures presented by global experts from the likes of Oxford, NASA, Harvard, Google, Deloitte, Stanford, & Y Combinator; and Exclusive access to services and amenities like transfers, a grocery delivery service for households, a yoga studio, a gym and a production and recording space. Valenture Institute Constantia is a boutique, tech-enabled campus, set in the heart of Cape Town’s Southern Suburbs, that blends virtual learning with in-person support and experiences. Every consideration has been given to enhancing our students’ social and learning environment while providing them with an internationally-recognised curriculum. The campus can accommodate a maximum of 80 students between Grades 8 and 12. Adding to the Cape Town offering, Valenture Institute’s Josephine Mill campus is a slice of history in the heart of the green, leafy suburb of Newlands. The campus can accommodate a maximum of 60 students between Grades 8 and 12. Every consideration has been given to enhancing students’ social and learning environment while providing them with an internationally-recognised education that affords learners more opportunities to thrive in a global context. The Valenture Institute also understands that, due to the global crisis, parents are in a difficult place with loss of incomes, school closures, and children that need to keep up with their education nonetheless. The Institute has created a payment concession to alleviate school fee penalties in the transition to online learning and enrolling at the institute. After successful admission, Valenture will offer a fee discount to allow for their current school fee penalties to alleviate the financial burden in these uncertain times. The fee discount will be applied on a case by case basis and dependent on the payment agreement with their current education provider. For more information visit www.valentureinstitute.com