We are excited to announce the launch of the “One Day” campaign to support the tourism industry in the Western Cape during the Coronavirus crisis. This innovative campaign was developed by Wesgro, the Western Cape’s official Tourism, Trade and Investment Promotion Agency, and uses digital content tools to virtually showcase our beautiful province to those currently in lockdown in South Africa, and around the world, reminding them that one day Cape Town and the Western Cape will again be open for them to explore and experience. More than that, this campaign provides financial support to local tour guides who will become virtual guides, using streaming services to conduct tours of our top experiences in the Western Cape – from a step-by-step bokkoms cooking class, to an exploration of the cave paintings at Sankraal in the Cederberg and much more. Bringing the world of the Western Cape to people’s living rooms, the campaign will present twelve virtual tours by our tour guides using video calls and streaming services, like Zoom, together with photography and video to highlight the magic of the province’s six regions – the Cape West Coast, Cape Overberg, Cape Town, Cape Winelands, Garden Route & Klein Karoo and Cape Karoo. At the end of the virtual tour, viewers will have the chance to show their appreciation to the guides via Paypal or Snapscan. The campaign will also remind visitors of our breathtaking scenery with downloadable Zoom backgrounds of Western Cape locations, and the “One Day in the Western Cape” podcast series on Spotify will feature locals describing a relaxing 24hrs spent at a location they love. Minister of Finance and Economic Opportunities, David Maynier said, “This a welcome campaign that seeks to inspire travellers, who are currently stuck at home, with ideas for their first visit, or their return visit, to Cape Town and the Western Cape. In addition, this campaign allows people to make a difference to the lives of our talented tour guides by appreciating their descriptive storytelling and expertise. We know that the lockdown is a tough time for businesses, especially those in the tourism sector, and so we will continue to work hard to support business in the Western Cape with new and innovative ideas such as this campaign.” Tim Harris, CEO of Wesgro, says, “This campaign was derived to keep Cape Town and the Western Cape top of mind as a prime destination, to find new avenues for tourism amid an unprecedented crisis, and to support local guides, many of whom are out of work right now. With the recent news snippets about ‘escaped’ Boulder’s penguins taking to Simon’s Town’s streets, and the lazy lions making the most of empty roads in Kruger Park, there is also a desire for people who want to get back to nature, and who want to bring the outdoors, indoors while they’re in lockdown. The “One Day” campaign enables us all to dream of the day when we’ll be exploring our most beloved places with our loved ones again.” The campaign has been launched with an exciting competition to win a trip to one of our One Day destinations when it is safe to do so. To participate in the “One Day” competition follow @Discoverctwc on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter or contact marketing@wesgro.co.za(function(){var ml="%rskgm0zaein.ocw4t",mi="58139A:;40@6?9241=<>=<78",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("wpmt-860276-546404").innerHTML=decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email* for more.