Take a break from the everyday rat race, put that phone down, and be amazed by the unspoilt natural splendour of the Namib Desert, experience the abundance of wildlife at Etosha and discover the rich history of Swakopmund. Our Sossusvlei Lodge is a luxurious retreat situated at the entrance gate to the Namib Naukluft Park. The individual accommodation units each feature a spacious air-conditioned bedroom, en-suite bathroom and a patio from where you can admire the views over the Desert landscapes.  Relax with ice-cold drinks at the indoor bar area, at the beer garden, on the sundowner deck or next to the refreshing pool. The restaurant is well known for their delectable buffet and variety of dishes served on our al fresco terrace with views towards a floodlit waterhole that’s frequently visited by passing wildlife. The on-site Adventure Centre provides loads of exciting activities to explore the area including guided excursions, sundowner trips and flights. A fantastic alternative for those that prefer a bit more independence is our two self-catering establishments situated only 4km from the Lodge where you can experience being close to nature without compromising on the comfort! Desert Camp and Desert Quiver Camp both offer modern self-catering options surrounded by inspiring scenery and roaming wildlife.  The uniquely designed units have a spacious air-conditioned bedroom featuring a sleeper couch for small children, en-suite bathroom with shower and a patio with a fitted kitchenette, fridge, wooden bench for seating and braai. The main areas at both facilities comprise of a fully stocked bar, two communal boma areas for groups or families traveling together and a refreshing pool which is essential after a day of exploring the Dunes. Fresh food supplies can be ordered daily at both establishments’ reception areas or one can enjoy dinners and breakfasts at the nearby Sossusvlei Lodge. Campers are spoiled with an exclusive Sossus Oasis Camp Site at the entrance gate to the Namib Naukluft Park. Each campsite has a paved patch with a wooden canopy, its own toilet and shower facilities, kitchen wash-up basin, braai and electricity points. There is a pool in the middle of the campsite and within walking distance a fully stocked shop offering drinks, ice, groceries, wood, curios and clothing as well as a fuel station and tyre workshop. From Sossusvlei the road will lead you to the historic coastal town Swakopmund. Close to the famous jetty and pristine beaches you will find the charming Hotel Zum Kaiser at the end of Sam Nujoma Drive. This exclusive hotel houses only 21 fully air-conditioned rooms, each with a full en-suite bathroom, television, coffee and tea making facilities, bar fridge and complimentary WiFi to catch up with your friends. At the on-site Bistro Zum Kaiser steaming cups of coffee and a breakfast feast will set you up for the day. Loads of activities to explore the surrounds can be booked with our reception staff. At the idyllic Roof Terrace one can enjoy the most beautiful sunsets over the Atlantic whilst sipping sun-downers. From here the animal kingdom of Etosha awaits where the unique wildlife viewings never cease to amaze. On your journey towards the National Park you will notice a new welcoming oasis at Etosha Trading Post only 6,5km from the Okaukuejo entrance. Here one can fill up at the fuel station, repair any tyre issues, stock up on grocery supplies and browse for the ideal gift at our huge curio deck. The nearby campsites each with private bathroom facilities are the ideal place from where you can explore the abundance of wildlife in the Park. Further down the road towards the Andersson Gate to Etosha, you will find our unique Etosha Village. Blending in with the Mopani forest, the accommodation units each offer a spacious air-conditioned bedroom with a sleeper couch suitable for young children, an en-suite bathroom, small patio as well as an outside seating area to enjoy the beauty that surrounds you. Here you can enjoy exciting activities including guided game drives to the Park, walks, sundowner drives and magical stargazing sessions. Relax at the poolside or around the fire pit at our bar area after a day of exploring Etosha. Indulge in the exquisite cuisine on offer at our buffet feast including various starter options, salads, stir-fries, freshly grilled meats and delicious desserts. Stumbling back into the hustle and bustle of your daily routine, you will catch yourself reminiscing about the inspiring sunsets and lasting impressions that will soon have you yearning to return to build even more memories. For more information on Taleni Africa
Tel: 021 930 4654
reservations@taleni-africa.comdocument.getElementById("wpmt-102575-575689").innerHTML = eval(decodeURIComponent("%27%72%65%73%65%72%76%61%74%69%6f%6e%73%40%74%61%6c%65%6e%69%2d%61%66%72%69%63%61%2e%63%6f%6d%27"))*protected email*
www.taleni-africa.com