What became a local favourite last Summer, Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery will be bringing their Friday Night Pizzas back to Spier Wine Farm as we enjoy the last of the holidays and height of summer. Situated amongst the great oak trees of Stellenbosch, Vadas once again is serving pizza every Friday night, in addition to their regular al la carte menu. These sourdough pizza bases are made with stoneground flour and are fermented for 48hrs. Buffalo mozzarella from Buffalo Ridge is used – the only water buffalo dairy in South Africa and the country’s only producer of buffalo mozzarella. All meat products used are from Farmer Angus meats, raised on Spier Wine Farm. You can choose from 5 different pizzas such as The Fat Butcher: bianco base with creamed leeks, salsa Verde, bone marrow, thyme and smoked cheddar or The Porky: tomato base with buffalo mozzarella, Farmer Angus bacon, avo and feta. The full pizza menu is on the Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery website http://www.vadas.co.za Pair your pizzas with a selection of Spier Wines including Spier’s award-winning 21 Gables wine collection. Top off your evening with a delicious Italian gelato made fresh by Moro Gelato, who are quickly becoming the gelato kings of Cape Town. From the Vadas Bakery, the most perfect sourdough bread and farm loaf are baked fresh every morning. The breads have a crunch to the crust and that wholesome taste of rustic grain. The Vadas’ famous Pastéis de Nata are authentic and traditional. These handmade little tarts might look unassuming, but you will not find one better in South Africa. The crispy-crunchy-buttery pastry encases the oozing custard center and with just the right amount of caramelization, it’s perfection on a plate! The bakery’s treasure trove of ‘Sweet Surrender Pies’, American-style sweet pies such as lemon meringue pie, salted caramel pie, chocolate cream pie and pecan pie (to name a few) are also on offer. The best part is that all bakery items, including pizzas on Friday nights, are available as take-home to share with friends, family and co-workers. Vadas encourages you to pre-order your selection of their sweet pies, breads and pastries for your at-home entertaining; making your life easier. Valentine’s Day Special The month of love is around the corner and it’s time to start planning your romantic Valentine’s with your special someone. Treat your loved one to dinner at Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery on Friday 14th February. Book now for our Chefs Platter of 8 dishes for only R395pp and enjoy a complimentary glass of Spier MCC Brut. Stay up to date with daily specials and new dishes by following Vadas Smokehouse & Bakery on Instagram @vadas_smokehouse or Facebook @vadassmokehouse
For lunch and dinner, open Monday to Sunday 12pm – 3pm & 6pm – 11pm (kitchen closes at 9pm) For bookings contact 021 809 1137 or info@vadas.co.za(function(){var ml="vd4inao0zsc.%f",mi="34=6<2705159;:6;85",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("wpmt-341705-384107").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email* and view the full menu online at www.vadas.co.za