With a few delays at start that included broken bridles and lost shoes, the 2020 L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate got off to an even start at the 1600m mark. Tote favourite, Hawwaam jumped on terms from gate number one and sat comfortably in third on the rail until just after the turn for the finish, with Crown Towers and Rainbow Bridge leading the field for home. As they hit the straight, however, neither Hawwaam nor highly respected, Do It Again seemed to kick on and it was four-year-old Vardy, bred by the Tawny Syndicate / Klawevlei, who romped home an easy victor in the R1.5 million 2020 L’Ormarin’s Queen’s Plate. Vardy, who won the Grade 2 Green Point Stakes in mid-December, has improved with every run and had to be respected in this small but competitive field. His flying finish from the back of the field has to make him a force to be reckoned with in the upcoming Sun Met as the #SummerOfChampions continues. Second and third place were split by a mere nostril as One World and Rainbow Bridge tussled it out right down to the wire. Twist of Fate rounded up the quartet giving Adam Marcus a dream result in this Grade 1 feature race. The vibe on course was palpable as a sea of blue and white lined up alongside the track awaiting the thunder of hooves towards the finish line. Apart from the action on the track, the fashion, food and festivities grandstand-side were equally thrilling. Race goers had exceeded all expectations on both days of the L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate Festival of Racing with custom blue and white outfits and eccentric hats and fascinators on show. It’s no wonder this festival of racing has become one of the most anticipated race days on the calendar and with thrilling action both on the course and off, it sets a perfect tone for the upcoming Sun Met. Final Result of the 2020 L’Ormarins Queen’s Plate: 1st – Vardy (C. Zavkey / A.Marcus) 2nd – One World (MJ Byleveld / V. Marshall) 3rd – Rainbow Bridge (G. Lerena / E. Sands) 4th – Twist of Fate (A. Domeyer / A. Marcus) For further information follow Racing. It’s A Rush on social media or visit www.itsarush.co.za