South Africa’s hope for Olympic gold in 2020 is proudly carried by the South African Culinary Olympic team (Team SA) as they head for the 25th IKA Culinary Olympics in Stuttgart, Germany, from 14 to 19 February, under the auspices of the SA Chefs Association. Team SA is headed by Trevor Boyd, Team Manager and Executive Chef of The Michelangelo Hotel; with team members: Dion Vengatass, Chef de Cuisine, Belmond Mount Nelson Hotel (Team Captain); and Kirstin Hellemann, Junior Sous Chef, Belmond Mount Nelson Hotel, both of whom have past Culinary Olympic experience – and Olympic newcomers, Adrian Vigus-Brown, Executive Chef, African Pride Melrose Arch, Autograph Collection; Chanté Rabie, Pastry Chef, Saxton Hotel, Villas & Spa; Bradley van Niekerk, Senior Chef de Partie, Chefs Warehouse Beau Constantia; Oscar Baard, Pastry Chef, NH Cape Town The Lord Charles; and Sifiso Chiziane (commis chef, African Pride Melrose Arch, Autograph Collection & National Youth Chef Training Programme 3rd year student). The 2020 IKA Culinary Olympics will attract over 70 countries and 2 000 chefs competing in the oldest and biggest international culinary arts competition, first held in 1900 with four participating nations. The Springbok squad will compete in two categories; the Chef’s Table, entailing seven different dishes for twelve people on 16 February, and the Restaurant of Nations, a three-course menu for 110 people on 18 February. In both instances, visitors to the IKA Olympics will be able to pay to enjoy the dishes. Zuki Jantjies, Divisional Director of Sales and Marketing at City Lodge Hotel Group, accommodation sponsor of Team SA, said the group was excited to host the farewell function at City Lodge Hotel OR Tambo International Airport 9 February before the chefs fly to Germany. She added, “The squad is like family. They are carrying our nation’s Olympic hopes and dreams of success on the culinary world stage and we are proud of their achievements to date.” The Chefs Table menu that the team will present includes: The team’s three-course Restaurant of the Nations menu includes: James Khoza, President of SA Chefs Association, wished the team well in their quest for gold, and said, “All the training these chefs have had and the preparation they have put in will pay off – and young juniors in the industry will see what is possible.” He also thanked the team’s proud sponsors whose involvement ensured South Africa’s participation in this globally acclaimed culinary event. “The cost of providing the necessary training and practice sessions for the chefs, the logistics and the entries into the competitions is extremely high, and as an NPO, SA Chefs depends on the support of sponsors to make it all possible.” The official partners to the team are HTA School of Culinary Art, Avanti, SiChef (SiClothing), Sir Fruit fresh fruit juice, Ecolab, Rich’s, Turn and Slice, F. Dick, MacBrothers, Fidelity Services Group, Snappy Chef, Callebaut, TrenStar, ScanBox, Kee Ingredients, Savannah, Midway Liquor Wholesalers, South African Airways, Distell, JLBranding, Sun International and CR Brands, Legacy Hotel Group  and the official accommodation partner for the National Culinary Olympic Team – City Lodge Hotel Group. Stephen Billingham, former President of the SA Chefs Association and owner of the HTA School of Culinary Art, concludes, “This team represents all of us – our people, cultures, hospitality, business, and the diversity and quality of our food from our country and our seas.” For more information on the Springbok Culinary team, visit www.sachefs.co.za.