The 2019/2020 #SummerOfChampions has been one for the memory books – thrilling finishes, epic on-course entertainment and a passion for fashion! As the Cape Town racing season comes to a close, it seems fitting to end off with a race day that embodies all things symbolic of the Western Cape – juicy, freshly cooked prawns, warm summer sunshine and an impressive sundowner view over Kenilworth Racecourse. It’s a race day filled with Graded races – including the Cape Derby (Gr 1), the Khaya Stables Diadem Stakes (Gr 2), the Vasco Prix du Cap (Gr 3), the Cape of Good Hope Nursery (Gr 3), the Kenilworth Fillies Nursery (Gr 3) and the Selangor Jet Master Stakes. It may sound like a mouthful (pun intended), but the only thing more appetizing than the line-up of equestrian champions fighting it out for those titles, is the thousands of freshly cooked prawns awaiting race goers at the Cape Town Prawn Festival on 22 February at Kenilworth Racecourse. “The Cape Town Prawn Festival is one of the most anticipated events of the year. Few things bring friends and family together better than wholesome, delicious food coupled with live entertainment and beautiful Cape Town summer days,” says Bryn Ressell, owner of Vasco de Gama Taverna in Green Point which has become an institution for Portuguese food and sport watching in Cape Town – making it fitting that the Vasco sponsored, Prix du Cap, falls on the same day as the Prawn Festival. “All feature race days are exciting, but the Prawn Festival in particular brings an entirely new vibe to the racecourse. It’s heart-warming to see so many people, from all walks of life, on-course enjoying the days offerings – whether it be the horse racing or the food.” “Apart from the amazing display of equine talent on the day, there is so much to see and do at the Cape Town Prawn Festival and it can be simply summed up as a day of food, family and fun,” says Jehan Malherbe of Khaya Stables, proud sponsors of the Diadem Stakes. “Few race days have so many graded races on the card, promising race goers an action-packed afternoon. Couple that with delicious prawns and live entertainment and you’ve got the recipe for a fantastic day at the races!” “Join us at Kenilworth Racecourse on 22 February to close out the #SummerOfChampions with a bang. Whether your heart lies with the horses, your mouth watering for the prawns or if you’re looking for a day out with friends and family – diarise the Cape Town Prawn Festival for a day of sensory delights!” For more information visit www.itsarush.co.za