The Melck family will once again be hosting their annual Harvest Festival at Muratie Wine Estate in Stellenbosch on Saturday, 29 February 2020. The Festival, which takes place under the ancient oaks that guard this historic wine estate, is a celebratory family event featuring good food, fine wine, great company, live music and lots of fun stomping newly harvested grapes. On arrival, after a welcoming drink, visitors are bound to want to join in the fun and laughter “stomping” grapes, and tasting Muratie’s well-loved, award winning wines. Tractor Rides through the vineyards will take place at set times for the young and young at heart.
A long lazy alfresco lunch prepared by Muratie’s Farm Kitchen will follow accompanied by Muratie wines. Relax and savour a memorable afternoon of live music performed by the popular Kitchen Jammin Blues Band. There are enchanting places where one can escape life’s hustle and bustle, and Muratie is one of those magical treasures. Hidden away in the exquisite Knorhoek valley, with a perfect view of Table Mountain, Muratie is as old as history itself, with a unique, almost tangible old-world ambiance. The passion for preserving the estate’s rich, centuries-old heritage is captured in every nook and cranny of this family farm. Beautiful old Cape Dutch buildings, crumbling statues, antique wine-making equipment, and the quaint tasting room with its cobwebs, stained glass windows and art, are all set in a secret garden, a lush green haven of peace and tranquility. For those who love being outdoors, Muratie offers amazing trails for mountain biking and trail running, suitable for beginners, as well as intermediate and experienced riders and runners. The picturesque surrounding ensures an unforgettable experience. Permits are available from the Muratie Tasting Room. Muratie is also home to the contemporary MOK Gallery. ‘MOK’, an abbreviation for modern kontemporêr, is the Afrikaans translation for modern contemporary. Art is an important aspect of the Muratie history with the late owner and artist, George Paul Canitz, serving much of his tenure on the estate. The gallery is located in Ansela van de Caab’s house, dating from 1685. For more information visit www.muratie.co.za