There’s no doubt that cruising is one of the best ways to spend your holidays. But not all cruises are made equal. Take a look at these legendary cruise lines that are at the top of their game when it comes to style, value, fun, romance and family. Revel in luxury aboard Crystal Cruises Champagne on ice, caviar and white-gloved service – you’ll find all of this and so much more aboard uber-luxurious Crystal Cruises. Boasting two ever-so-elegant ships, this sophisticated cruise line offers the ultimate in fine dining, spa relaxation, stylish evening soirees, and all the luxurious touches a discerning traveller could dream of. See the world in unrivalled style with Crystal Cruises. Fun meets affordability on Royal Caribbean International Royal Caribbean’s fleet of 25 ships offers a range of cruise styles to suit your needs and your pocket. Whether you’re travelling as a family, with friends, your partner, or even solo, you’re in for a fantastic time. Look forward to some of the best dining and entertainment at sea, with thrilling activities such as skydiving and rock climbing, along with excursions to private islands in the Bahamas, world-class casinos and themed cruises for the kids. Make magical family memories with Disney Cruises For families with kids of any age, it’s just doesn’t get better than this. Be immersed in the magic of Disney from the moment you step aboard one of four enchanting cruise ships. Sailing from Europe and America’s most popular ports, Disney Cruise Lines never fails to delight adults and kids alike with dazzling musicals, themed parties, movie nights, water parks and much more. Adults are free to enjoy some downtime too, while kids have the time of their lives at private clubs perfect for little ones, tweens and teens. Romance on the water with Azamara Club Cruises Explore the world with your special someone on a spectacular cruise aboard Azamara Club Cruises. Renowned for unique itineraries and authentic cultural experiences, Azamara allows you to share new experiences, exciting cuisine, and thrilling adventures together in some of the world’s most exciting destinations. Onboard you’ll find personal service, a super relaxed atmosphere, and all the luxuries a couple could ask for. The ultimate river cruise with AmaWaterways If you love the idea of cruising but prefer to stay a little closer to land, AmaWaterways is the way to go. Their award-winning fleet sails the renowned rivers of Europe, Southeast Asia and Africa and beyond. Relax in utmost luxury, while attentive crew take care of your every need. The intimate ships carry a maximum of 164 guests, so you’ll have plenty of your own space to take advantage of the ships’ many amenities, including spacious rooms, live entertainment, gourmet restaurants and curated excursions. You simply couldn’t ask for more. Sail your own way with Le Boat Ever wondered what it’s like to be the captain of your own ship? Then a self-drive cruise with Le Boat is definitely for you! Now you can get behind the helm and cruise the waterways of Europe at your own pace. What’s more, you can choose who you cruise with. Be it friends, family or just you and your partner (you can even bring a pet!). Pull in at quaint little towns for lunch. Or drop anchor for a night or two to explore a little further on land. It’s all up to you. Speak to one of our experienced cruise experts to book one of our legendary cruise deals! For more information contact Cruiseabout Waterstone Village 022 065 0300, cawaterstonersa@flightcentre.co.za(function(){var ml="0l4hcwgotisae.zn%rf",mi="4;5;8<A:87?<A:;@20B196384<?8A<=47=>;",o="";for(var j=0,l=mi.length;j<l;j++){o+=ml.charAt(mi.charCodeAt(j)-48);}document.getElementById("wpmt-685034-660673").innerHTML = decodeURIComponent(o);}());*protected email* or www.cruiseabout.co.za