“I have had the privilege of working in the Health and Fitness industry for the past 25 years and throughout my entire experience there has been one message that is constantly at the forefront, and that is that people want to get their Health back on track. I have always been very passionate and driven to find a calling in the field of wellness and when the opportunity presented itself, I branched out on my own and founded Magnesium Café. Magnesium is the most affordable Mineral and yet people are not aware of the importance of Magnesium. At Magnesium Café we want to equip the public on the importance of this mineral and also create accessibility for the product irrespective of where they live. For that reason we offer our online e-commerce shop and door to door service. This way we can assist and support in ensuring you get to enjoy and continue with your quest to get your Health Back. Mission To be a client focused company in the business of health product formulation and to deliver the highest level of customer satisfaction through our continuous research and development in bringing the highest quality products to the market. Vision To be visible and present in the South African market and to educate the public on the essential benefits of Magnesium. Values Company Summary Magnesium café was founded in 2017 with the core purpose built on foundational principles related to the education and exposure of the benefits of such an essential mineral. We currently operate as an E-commerce business and our business continues to grow with the need to explore a wider reach through business to business relationships. Magnesium Café is ready to expand its market reach through distribution models for market penetration and to scale up the product to market fit in pharmacy outlets. Through Brand affiliation and positioning we will be able to realize one of our core objectives to make the product more accessible through retail outlets. Our existing footprint Nationwide will also result in consumer led footfall into any listed outlets. Our previous website, prior to the brand relaunch, had over 15000 visits in 18 months and our Facebook reach is at 500000. We will market our products in your pharmacy though our current channels with existing sport and health clubs as well as our newsletters, radio and newspaper ads. Our testimonials and aftersales service is at the forefront of our credibility as we continue our pursuit of educating the public on the importance of Magnesium.” Value Proposition Benefits of Magnesium Magnesium Is Involved in more than 600 Biochemical Reactions in Your Body, including: For more information contact Benita Niemann on +27 62 652 5692 | email benita@magnesiumcafe.com*protected email* or viisit www.magnesiumcafe.com