As the Radisson RED Hotel V&A Waterfront, Cape Town, prepares to reopen this week, the hotel has announced a new  Radisson Hotels Safety Protocol program. The protocol consists of in-depth cleanliness and disinfection procedures, in partnership with SGS, the world’s leading inspection, verification, testing and certification company. Approval labels are available to all hotels and are issued after a comprehensive local audit including on-site testing, using the latest technology. “We are going to reopen for essential services, and provide hospitality to guests who need to travel during these times. Before reopening, the most important consideration for us was to ensure the health and safety of our staff and guests and to have all the necessary precautions in place. Our new safety protocol strictly adheres to the South African government’s regulations and upholds the highest global standard of COVID-19 hygiene practice,” says Leonie Andereya, Curator at RED. The hotels in-house staff team has been isolated for two weeks to ensure they have not been exposed to the virus, and all contact points between employees and guests have been removed. “Social distancing will be a top priority for us. We will also conduct daily temperature checks on both staff and guests and document results so that we can monitor symptoms,” says Andereya. Housekeeping protocol for the hotel will see thorough cleaning of rooms with very specific cleaning products, and sanitisation stations will be available in rooms and throughout the hotel. Guests can also expect cash-free payment options. Hotel amenities on offer have been assessed for high risk of infection with some facilities being closed until further notice. “Despite being renowned for our rooftop pool and bar facilities, we have to put the safety of guests first and prohibit certain amenities.  However, guests will still be able to enjoy our restaurant cuisine, which will be served sealed or wrapped. Our usual buffet breakfast will not be available, but guests can place an order for a breakfast box to have in the comfort of their room or on the go,” says Andereya. RED has started to see an influx of bookings for essential workers and are confident that they have all the right hygiene measures in place to operate safely. For more information on the Radisson Hotels Safety Protocol, see here:  https://www.radissonhotels.com/en-us/social-responsibility/health-safety