Researchers have discovered a strong link between severe vitamin D deficiency and mortality rates among Covid-19 patients, according to a new study. The US study found that Covid-19 patients with severe deficiency are twice as likely to experience major complications, including death. Researchers analysed data from patients with Covid-19 in 10 countries, including China, the UK, the US and in Europe. “…patients from countries with high COVID-19 mortality rates, such as Italy, Spain and the UK, had lower levels of vitamin D compared to patients in countries that were not as severely affected,” said a statement from Northwestern University, Chicago, which led the study. Lead researcher, Vadim Backman, said they discovered a strong correlation between vitamin D levels and cytokine storm – a hyperinflammatory condition caused by an overactive immune system — as well as between vitamin D deficiency and mortality. “Cytokine storm can severely damage lungs and lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome and death…,” said Ali Daneshkhah, co-researcher. “This is what seems to kill a majority of Covid-19 patients, not the destruction of the lungs…It is the complications from the misdirected fire from the immune system.” Backman believes vitamin D plays a major role in both enhancing the immune system and preventing it from becoming dangerously overactive. “This means having healthy levels of vitamin D could protect patients against severe complications, including death, from Covid-19,” said the statement. Vitamin D has increasingly shown to significantly impact on immunity. A study suggests it may be as effective as vitamin C, if not more, for strengthening the immune system, while earlier research found it to be a powerful immunoregulator. The World Health Organisation suggests everyone takes a vitamin D supplement, according to a report. And in the UK, public health officials have recommended people consider taking vitamin D supplements during lockdown. Using vitamin D oral spray has been proven to have up to a 228% higher blood reading compared to tablets, while a study by Cardiff University found that BetterYou DLux oral spray guaranteed a dramatically better nutritional dosage than tablets or capsules. Nutritional expert, Vanessa Ascencao, said research shows that Africa may have the highest frequency of severe vitamin D deficiency and says the focus should be on good health and boosted immunity. “Being as healthy as possible is the best defence. Consider a holistic approach including a diet rich in fruit and vegetables, exercise, restorative sleep, managing stress and taking supplements like DLux oral spray.”