This month sees Busamed Paardevlei Private Hospital in Somerset West celebrating its fifth anniversary. Since opening its doors in May 2015, it has provided valuable services to the local community, including a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, cardiac ICU, general ICU, high-care, operating theatres, day, medical, paediatric, and surgical wards. The opening of the Paardevlei facility was also the first foray into Busamed’s journey to become the  healthcare provider in South Africa.  As one of the country’s first black-owned healthcare groups it subsequently opened four new hospitals over five years and acquired another three, with five of its hospitals rated in the country’s Top 20 by Discovery Health members in 2020. The Paardevlei hospital, like the others in the Busamed group, strives to provide innovative, quality-centred yet cost-effective healthcare.  Busamed’s commitment to innovation in healthcare is evidenced by Busamed Paardevlei Private Hospital being the site of the first NAVIO Total Knee Replacement in South Africa in 2020.  The hospital has a wide range of orthopaedic sub-specialities including orthopaedic oncology, hip and knee arthroplasty (joint replacement), revision arthroplasty, upper limb specialists (including shoulder arthroplasty), foot and ankle, pelvic and orthopaedic trauma specialist, spinal surgery and knee sports medicine. Many of its orthopaedic specialists have sub-specialities which are not readily available in their surrounding areas. According to Busamed Paardevlei Private Hospital manager Dr Christelle de Jager, the combined focus of world-class patient care, technology, expertise and innovation is ever evolving, leading to the recently introduced cardiac electrophysiology services. “This allows us – along with an experienced electrophysiologist – to better diagnose and treat certain cardiac conditions.  This service was not previously available in the Helderberg and surrounding areas and patients had to be referred to facilities in Cape Town.  This is an extension to the existing services available in our cardiac catheterisation lab, which is also equipped with modern technology.” The catherization lab is a specialised environment in which certain cardiac conditions can be visualised and treated. The unit is supported by qualified and experienced in-house specialists in cardiology and cardiothoracic surgery. “We are committed to servicing the needs of our patients and match appropriate specialist disciplines. To this end, we are constantly exploring and introducing new disciplines and services for the benefit of our patients and over the last five years we have made world-class levels of treatment available to a broad base of patients, especially those living in and around the Helderberg basin,” says Dr de Jager. 