Bureau Veritas, a world leader in testing, inspection and certification (TIC) services, has developed a suite of solutions to support companies of all sizes as they restart business activity. Didier Michaud-Daniel, Chief Executive Officer, commented: “More than ever, our role as an expert, independent third party is crucial to creating the conditions for trust in this restart period. Bureau Veritas is committed to deploy all efforts worldwide to help its clients protect the health and safety of their employees and customers. Our geographical presence in 140 countries and unrivalled experience in certification processes are considerable assets as they enable us to provide companies, public authorities and society as a whole with our services and our in-depth knowledge of local specificities and regulations.” “Restart Your Business with BV” has been developed in collaboration with a range of experts and stakeholders to support companies and government recommence operations with the legislated health protocols and sanitary conditions in place. Bureau Veritas’ objectives are to: “Restart Your Business with BV” is a digital platform offering a suite of solutions enhanced by a digital ecosystem, designed to address the risks specific to all places where people live and work from construction sites and factories to offices, hospitality, restaurants, shops and public facilities. The ecosystem includes operational assistance tools for companies who want to reassure stakeholders of their compliance with regulations to ensure their health and safety are safeguarded. Leveraging on its expertise in certification processes and management of health, safety and hygiene risks, Bureau Veritas is committed to supporting economic recovery and robust business practices. A Certificate of Compliance and a Site Label Sticker complete with QR code and validity date, both valid for a six-month period, will be issued acknowledging regulatory compliance. Sal Govender, Vice-President for Bureau Veritas Southern Africa commented: “Increasingly, we are here to support our valued customers resume their business operations in a safe manner, with the health and safety protection of their employees and clients being our top priority. Using industry leading local and global expertise, we will conduct independent risk assessments and audits, putting the requisite health, safety, and hygiene steps in place to ensure their business is compliant with local and international regulations. We remain committed to the construction, mining and commodities, manufacturing, healthcare (pharmaceutical), buildings and infrastructure, agriculture, food, oil and gas, marine, power and utilities sectors. We can assure our stakeholders, the successful resumption of their business is of crucial importance to us as a trusted partner, working together to create a safer and more sustainable environment.” The head office for Bureau Veritas Southern Africa is based in Johannesburg; with branches in Cape Town, Centurion, Durban, and Pretoria; and laboratories in Cape Town, Centurion, Durban, Johannesburg, and Richards Bay.